# Running Cofigauto #

Let's see this tool in action.

  1. [Tool Folder Structure](#Tool_Structure.md)
  1. [Run through .bat file (windows)](#Run_through_.bat_file_(windows).md)
  1. [Run directly from Cofigauto JAR file](#Run_directly_from_Cofigauto_JAR_file.md)
    * [JAR Parameters](#JAR_Parameters.md)


## Tool Structure ##
https://sites.google.com/a/cofigauto.com/cofigauto/tool_explore.png?attredirects=0&d=1

Tool contains following files:
  * **conf/log4j.xml** - This file contains configurations related to logs. If you want to change path and name of log file then make changes here.
  * **drivers** - this folder contains driver files of selenium which are required in case you want to run your tests on IE or Chrome browsers.
  * **log** - this folder is default folder where log files are generated for each run of tool.
  * **test\_cases** - This folder contains excel files that contains test configurations. By default tool looks for file with name "Test\_scenarios.xls" inside this folder but you can change the location and name of file to be used by tool, as described in section [Run directly from cofigauto JAR file](#Run_directly_from_cofigauto_JAR_file.md)
  * **test\_reports** - This is default folder where test report will be generated by tool after each run. You can change Name of the prefix of report name and its location, as described in section [Run directly from cofigauto JAR file](#Run_directly_from_cofigauto_JAR_file.md)
  * **runtest.bat** - This file contains windows command to run this tool's jar with default configurations.

## Run through .bat file (windows) ##

Tool can be run directly through bat file on windows machine. This file is located inside **_root_** of this cofigauto\_runtime tool (as shown in image in [Tool Folder Structure](#Tool_Structure.md)).

These are the prerequisites for running tool through BAT file.
  * Java 7+ must be installed on system (Run command "java -version" on command prompt to ensure the same)
  * Browser with which you want to run the tests must be installed on system. Example test case which is bundled with the tool is configured to run with firefox browser hence you will have to change it in case if firefox is not installed on your system.

## Run directly from Cofigauto JAR file ##

Cofigauto JAR file can be found in the root of cofigauto\_runtime tool. You can double click or execute command "java -jar `<jar_file_name>`" to run this tool and pass arguments to override default paths configured in jar.

**Example :-**

```
java -jar cofigauto-1-jar-with-dependencies.jar -f test_cases/Test_Scenarios.xls -d test_reports -p Automation_Report_
```

Following are the points that you should keep in mind while running this tool through JAR directly:
  * If you don't want to override any of the default paths then use below command

```
java -jar <jar_file_name>
```

  * If not specified then Logger configuration file present inside "cofigauto\_runtime/conf" directory will be ignored and default configuration present in jar will be considered. In case if you have done some modifications in it and want those to be considered then execute jar with below command

```
java -Djava.ext.dirs=jars -Dlog4j.configuration=file:conf/log4j.xml -jar <jar_file_name>
```

  * If you want to run tests in IE or Chrome browsers that their driver needs to be on system path. There drivers are bundled inside directory  "cofigauto\_runtime/drivers". You will have to add path of these drivers to "path" environment variable.

#### JAR Parameters ####
> JAR Supports following command line parameters
    1. **-f** :- Excel file path which contains test configurations. Default is "test\_cases/Test\_Scenarios.xls"
    1. **-d** :- Directory where reports are to be created. Default is "test\_reports"
    1. **-p** :- Prefix of report file. Default is "Execution\_Report